[Music]
all right let's all ponder this one what
if the Sun went out one day a lot of us
take the Sun for granted on sunny days
we complain that it's too hot
yet when it's raining for days on end we
miss that big old ball of burning gas
but have you ever wondered what would
happen if the Sun just suddenly stopped
shining well the first thing that
probably comes to your mind is that it
will get a whole lot darker and colder
true but that doesn't even begin to
describe what kind of catastrophic event
it would be because eventually humankind
would meet its imminent demise aren't
you glad this is called the bright side
well just for fun this is what some
scientists think would probably happen
so get your flashlights out in the first
few minutes after the Sun stops burning
life goes on as usual here on earth
because the sunlight itself is still
travelling toward the planet but after
eight and a half minutes the skies go
black as if someone just flipped a
switch the whole entire planet is
plunged into darkness families enjoying
a nice picnic in the park beachgoers
basking in the warm Sun anyone out for a
midday straw feels especially shocked
and terrified but no matter what
hemisphere you're in it's now the dead
of night everywhere across the globe and
forget about moonlight you can't see the
moon now since there's no sunlight for
it to reflect no Sun no moon now all you
see is billions of stars shining in the
sky since the light coming from the Sun
can't outshine them just imagine looking
at your watch seeing 3 p.m. in the
middle of the day yet a night full of
stars
what's more the disappearance of the Sun
sets off changes and disturbances in the
Earth's ionosphere and magnetic field as
a result the blanket
darkness may be disrupted by the aurora
borealis or the Northern Lights so far
other planets are still visible in the
sky for example we can still see Jupiter
for another hour or so because this is
how long it takes the remaining sunlight
to bounce off Jupiter and return to
Earth after an hour once everybody has
realized the situation there in people
settle down to enjoy the peace and quiet
yeah panic ensues on the side that the
planet were supposed to be daytime and
it's not just hysteria people also feel
incredibly sad and that's because
natural sunlight works as a mood
enhancer so devoid of this people start
to fall into the depths of depression on
the flip side there's money to be made
selling tranquilizers but it's not all
good news there are some power outages
that cause problems with communication
systems solar panels are now rendered
obsolete but overall electricity
continues to function and cities remain
lit up until the power goes out for good
the temperature across the globe drops
by several degrees and just keeps going
down there's no sunlight to warm the
surface of the planet but the Earth's
molten core is still heating it from the
inside plus the greenhouse effect keeps
the temperatures from dropping too
drastically at least within the first 24
hours so a day has come and gone and the
Sun still hasn't returned if it weren't
for at the bright side the planet would
be an utter chaos authorities are at a
loss and have no control over the
situation looting and mayhem replace
civil society not only because of the
panic and confusion but also because
people feel safer committing crime in
the dark
whoo oh boy one of the worst things is
that photosynthesis stops within 24
hours it's by this very process that
plants produce oxygen by taking in water
nutrients light and carbon dioxide quite
soon every living creature on earth
starts having difficulties due to the
diminishing oxygen it's probably time to
sell some of those energy stocks you've
been holding
in the next few days the temperature
falls by 30 degrees Fahrenheit now it's
about 41 degrees Fahrenheit all over the
world this causes some heat dependent
microorganisms and plants to die out
within a week or so
the average temperature on the planet
falls below zero now you might be
thinking yeah no big deal
lots of people live in areas where it's
much colder in the winter I mean Siberia
anyone but the problem is that the
temperature keeps falling most plants
have already perished due to the cold
and heat loving animals start to
disappear shortly after my isn't this a
grim fairy tale herbivores are the first
to go since their sources of food have
vanished should have been a meat-eater
scavengers feast on the dead remains
until the cold kills them too nobody's a
winner here big tree survived for a
couple more decades thanks to their
significant sugar storages and slow
metabolism people build shelters and try
to survive the cold and lack of food
they might be more successful in areas
with a lot of geothermal activity such
as Iceland another way they try to
survive is by going deep underground
where the internal heat of the planet is
more intense people might also construct
isolated igloos and dome-shaped
structures that effectively fight off
the frost after just one year a very
unhappy anniversary the surface of the
earth becomes as cold as 100 degrees
below zero at this point the planet
might host some types of bacteria that
can survive even in unbelievably cold
temperatures but other life forms on the
surface have been wiped away the top
layers of the Seas and oceans have
frozen over by this time which
surprisingly enough keeps the insides
liquid for thousands of years to come if
any people managed to survive to this
point the only place they have a chance
of making it is on the ocean floor near
geothermal vents since they emit heat
welling up from the planet still hot
core but even the ocean eventually
freezes after the temperature on the
surface drops to four hundred degrees
below zero
by this time guess what there's no life
on the planet but what happens to the
earth itself well for one thing
real-estate prices have fallen so you
can now finally afford to live in New
York City London and San Francisco well
if you were alive now normally the earth
orbits the Sun at an unbelievable speed
of 67,000 miles per hour but if the Sun
stops burning its gravitational pull
vanishes and it no longer keeps the
planets in their orbits as a result
guess what the earth flies away into
outer space at the same speed to
understand this better
imagine tying a small Rock to a string
and swinging it over your head in a
circle when you let it go the rock flies
away from you in a straight line and
probably hits that kid down to the
corner ouch so this string is like the
gravitational force that holds the earth
in its orbit without this force the
planet will wander away but unlike the
rock that will slow down and fall to the
ground because of gravity in the vacuum
of space the earth will just keep going
at speeds of 67,000 miles per hour
bye-bye
chances are that the earth will collide
with a cottage an asteroid or another
planet but if this doesn't happen where
will our planet end up after about
43,000 years the earth will near Alpha
Centauri the closest star to us in 1
billion years it will have traveled
100,000 light-years that's the entire
length of the Milky Way galaxy
you knew that of course along the way
our planet can get pulled into a black
hole after all there are over a billion
black holes in the Milky Way alone or it
may find itself a new Sun and join its
solar system in any case if the Sun just
stops working the future of our planet
will turn into an exciting adventure
across space unfortunately none of us
will be around to enjoy the ride
now wasn't
fun just remember though this scenario
was just a hypothetical what-if as for
the real future of the earth it'll stay
firmly tied to the Sun in several
billion years our beloved star will
increase in size and turn into a red
giant it will consume Mercury Venus
Earth and Mars five billion years after
that the Sun will implode upon itself
throwing off its outer layer and leaving
just a tiny dense core turning our Sun
into a white dwarf hopefully by that
time humanity will have found ways to
explore and colonize other planets
orbiting younger stars but if not well
that's a terrifying scenario to imagine
kind of puts being late to work into
perspective now doesn't it all right
what would be the hardest for you if the
Sun suddenly went out the darkness the
cold or the fear of the unknown me I
think it's gonna be really hard to get
some good rye bread anyway tell us in
the comments below and let's hope we
won't ever have to find out share this I
open athough your friends and hit the
like button if you were impressed and
don't forget that there are so many more
amazing and happier videos on our
channel so click that red subscribe
button so you won't miss anything new on
the bright side of life
[Music]
you